## Proposal

### Description

Our proposal for this project is a continuation of our web application from CMSI 401 called OneUp. Just to recap and re-establish our goals, OneUp aims to expose young skateboard talent through crowdsourced curation. The app is essentially a video database of user uploaded skate clips that are curated by upvotes and downvotes from other users. We hope to create a space where skaters can surface up democratically, powered by those who know and love skating. Skaters are constantly hoping to get noticed by established brands for potential sponsorships, and OneUp aims to serve as the middleman for this process. Besides serving the committed skater, anyone who simply enjoys watching skate videos will have a place to watch the top clips and have a say in which video/skater should be noticed.

This semester, we are working off of what we have from the previous semester. We will continue to use the MERN stack to build out the rest of our vision for OneUp. This includes major changes to both our backend and frontend code. At a high-level, our backend does not quite efficiently handle multiple users and runs into errors with routing. With our frontend, there are several component errors that must be fixed. These, along with other missing features, will be explained in the upcoming documents. Overall, we still very strongly believe in OneUp’s mission to allow skaters to continue pursuing their passion while changing the current form of skateboard media.

### Justification 

Our justification for starting OneUp has stayed the same since the beginning because of our strong belief in it’s purpose. OneUp has massive potential to be a practical application for the skate industry that sees little innovation. Since the beginning of skateboarding, professional skaters have only been discovered through three main ways: physically sending in clips to brand names, winning competitions, or gaining a large following on social media. However, in today’s digital media age, this can be done in a much more efficient and decentralized way -- by creating an avenue for skaters to build their personal brand while also introducing a new form of skate media.

Not only do we believe in the potential of this project, but it is feasible for the length of the semester given that we are only a small team of two. Although we already have a semester’s worth of work on the application, there is still much to be done (as mentioned in the ‘Description’). This web application, like most, can never be completely finished and will always require changes and updates. 

More importantly, we see this project as a challenge that will give us a chance to continue to apply knowledge from several of our previous courses. Concepts from CMSI 370 (Interaction Design) will help us build and design the front end web app, CMSI 486 (Intro to Databases) will guide us through creating multiple databases to store videos, CMSI 387 (Operating Systems) which taught us concepts relating to servers and processes handling multiple user requests, and CMSI 401 (Software Engineering Lab) which helped us to organize and design our system in depth. These main courses will give us the tools to be able to complete our vision for this project. However, we still expect to face technical challenges due to our limited experience working with the complexities of a full stack web application. We are eager to learn how to handle these technical difficulties and have confidence that all of the components of our project are within the scope of what we have learned in our curriculum. Overall, we are passionate about completing our vision for OneUp, but there is a lot of work left before we get there.
#
